---
_template: detail
model: 1989 BMW 325ix
title: 1989 BMW 325ix
price: $8,500
mileage: 97,000 miles
owner: Two owners
engine:
transmission:
drive: All-wheel Drive
Records: 

ext_color: Diamond Schwartz Metallic (Black)
int_color_and_material: Black Leatherette
vin: 
---

<!-- <strong>Model:</strong> {{ model }} -->

<strong>PRICE:</strong> {{ price }}

{{ if engine !=null}}<strong>ENGINE:</strong> {{ engine }} {{endif}}

<strong>MILEAGE:</strong> {{ mileage }}

<strong>EXTERIOR COLOR:</strong> {{ ext_color }}

<strong>INTERIOR:</strong> {{ int_color_and_material }}

{{ if vin !=null}} <strong>VIN:</strong> {{ vin }} {{endif}}

Crack-free Dash

Everything Works

Ski Pass Through

Bilstein Black Shocks with OEM Springs

Coco Floor Mats

Lightly Tinted Rear Side Windows

This is a 2-owner car that has driven less than 1000 miles in the last decade, a true garage find. It has no doubt been stored inside for the majority of its life. I have restored, rebuilt, and sorted a dozen E30s over the years, and this one drives more like a fresh-off-the-lot BMW than any of them. The paint is in better condition than my babied M Coupe. That’s the beauty of an automatic, it hasn’t been flogged, stanced, or bastardized like so many E30s out there. It has never had a cursive sticker on its lower windshield. It is a time capsule of what defined BMW for a generation and earned it the reputation as the Ultimate Driving Machine.

All of the boxes are checked with this car (if you can overlook the automatic transmission part – which you are if you are still reading). The AWD works perfectly. The AC blows cold. The odometer works and reads correct – 96,458 miles at the time I wrote this description. The antenna motor works. The projector headlights and fog lights have zero pitting or cracks. Neither does the lower valence. The door seals have not shrunk. The dash is crack free. It was professionally replaced at some point. The vents do not sag. All buttons and functions are intact and work correctly. The 6-button OBC has clear pixels. The stereo is a Kenwood unit with JBL speakers and a 6-disc changer in the trunk. The leatherette seats are as supple and soft as the dash, not hardened by years of UV exposure. The ski pass through and rear armrest are a fantastic option for your ski’s, snowboard, or Align Trex 700 RC Helicopter (I have fit all 3 in my personal E30). The suspension is tight, firm and compliant. It has been recently replaced with Bilstein black shocks and OEM springs. The motor purrs like a kitten. The driveline is free of noise or vibration. The muffler appears to be relatively new, it still has the factory black paint.

The seller claimed that the timing belt had been recently replaced (it looked like it had been), but the cam seal was leaking and every E30 I get gets the full service if there is no documentation to prove it.

I gave it the complete works using only OEM supplier parts:

- Timing Belt
- Timing Belt Tensioner
- Timing Belt Tensioner Spring
- Timing Belt Tensioner Guide Pin
- Cam Seal and O-Ring
- Water Pump
- Thermostat
- Thermostat O-Ring
- Valve Adjustment
- Valve Cover Gasket
- Spark Plugs
- Alternator Belt
- Power Steering Belt
- Air Compressor Belt
- BMW Coolant
- Oil Filter
- Engine Oil
- Fuel Filter
- Transmission Filter
- Transmission Fluid
- Transfer Case Fluid
- Front Differential Fluid
- Rear Differential Fluid

This is a premium car for a premium buyer. I’m not being greedy or trying to inflate the “E30 Tax”. It took a lot for me to get this car and more to make it right. Of all the BMW’s I own, the E30’s are my favorites. I want to find the right owner who will enjoy and cherish this car for years to come.

That’s the good, here’s the bad.

This car came to me (in Colorado) from Maryland. It is rust free with the exception of one small spot under the passenger door. I have documented this with pictures. The fender seams, lower windshield, floorboards, and battery tray are rust free. I have provided pictures of each of these areas. There is superficial rust on the brake dust shields, heat shields, and underbody fastener heads. I have included pictures of these items too. This car is clean! 

The left front fender has been professionally replaced at some point with a BMW DOT-R fender. The passenger door is missing its VIN tag. The Carfax and Autocheck reports are clean and posted below. The panel gaps are perfect, the frame rails are straight, and the radiator support bracket is original. There is no indication this car has ever been hit, but the left front fender was replaced at some point. I have included pictures of all areas and VIN tags mentioned above.

The Goodyear Eagle tires look virtually unused, consistent with sitting in a garage for the last 10 years. The little rubber nubs have not worn off and the tread depth is deep, but there is some slight cracking on the sidewalls, also consistent with sitting in a garage for the last 10 years. They are not hardened or slick, they hook up well and stick great.

The dashboard is a replacement dashboard, so the VIN tag is not attached. It is included with a section of the original dashboard with the vehicle. I have opted to keep it this way to rather than attach it to the new dashboard, to be flexible in complying with various state’s VIN requirements.