---
_template: detail
model: 2002 BMW E46 330xi Sport Wagon 
title: 2002 BMW E46 330xi Sport Wagon
price: $9,000
mileage: 150,600 miles (slightly less on the motor and transmission)
owner: 
engine: 330xi M54B30 Motor 230 hp, 211 foot/lbs (@3500rpm)
transmission: 330xi ZF 6-Speed Manual Transmission
drive: All-wheel Drive (Split 38% Front / 62% Rear)
records: 
ext_color: Red (Japanrot)
int_color_and_material: Tan Napa Leather Interior
vin:
---
<!-- IGNORE THIS SECTION -->

<strong>PRICE:</strong> {{ price }}

<strong>MILEAGE:</strong> {{ mileage }}

{{ if engine !=null}} <strong>ENGINE:</strong> {{ engine }} {{endif}}

{{ if transmission !=null}} <strong>TRANSMISSION:</strong> {{ transmission }} {{endif}}

{{ if drive !=null}} <strong>DRIVE:</strong> {{ drive }} {{endif}}


<strong>EXTERIOR COLOR:</strong> {{ ext_color }}


<strong>INTERIOR:</strong> {{ int_color_and_material }}


{{ if vin !=null}} VIN: {{ vin }} {{endif}}

<!-- Enter additional highlights, each separated by 2 line breaks-->

330xi 330mm Brakes

Style 73 Wheels

Sport Package

Premium Package

Cold Weather Package

Clean CarFax

##GENERAL
That’s right, a 330Xxi Sport Wagon – the car that BMW never built. This was professionally built by a BMW tech at a local performance BMW shop. It’s a 2002 BMW 325xi Sport Wagon with a 2004 BMW 330xi drivetrain. 

I am selling this for a friend who is a BMW tech at a one of the best independent performance BMW shops in the area. He was trained by BMW and worked at a BMW dealer before branching off on his own. He purchased the Sport Wagon at 106,000 miles in 2012. It was a 1-owner Colorado Car with a clean Carfax and a well document maintenance history. It was also a rare manual 325xi with sport, premium, and cold weather packages. 

Here is the original build information according to BMW:

- Model description: 325xi
- Market: USA
- Type: EP33
- E-Code: E46 (3FL)
- Chassis: Touring
- Steering: Links
- Doors: 5
- Engine: M54 - 2,50l (141kW)
- Drive: Allrad
- Transmission: Manuell
- Body Color: Japanrot (438)
- Upholstery: Standardleder/hellbeige 2 (arbeitsn (N6HC)
- Production date: 12/17/2001
- Assembled in: Regensburg

<pre class="tabular">
 
 CODE      STANDARD EQUIPMENT
 S210A     Dynamic stability control
 S354A     Green windscreen, green shade band
 S411A     Window lifts,electric,front/rear
 S645A     BMW US Radio
 S661A     Radio BMW Business (C43)
 S832A     Battery in luggage compartment
 S845A     Acoustic belt warning
 S853A     Language version English
 S876A     Radio frequency 315 MHz
 S992A     Control of number-plate attachment
 
 CODE      OPTIONAL EQUIPMENT
 S203A     4-wheel drive
 S249A     Multifunction f steering wheel
 S255A     Sports leather steering wheel
 S374A     BMW light alloy wheel,radial styling
 S386A     Roof railing
 S403A     Glass roof, electrical
 S431A     Interior mirror with automatic-dip
 S438A     Fine wood trim
 S441A     Smoker package
 S459A     Seat adjuster, electric, with memory
 S464A     Ski bag
 S473A     Armrest front
 S481A     Sports seat
 S494A     Seat heating driver/passenger
 S502A     Headlight cleaning system
 S520A     Fog lights
 S534A     Automatic air conditioning
 S550A     On-board computer
 S640A     Preparation f tel.installation universal
 S650A     CD player
 S674A     Hi-Fi System Harman Kardon
 S692A     Preparation, BMW 6-CD changer I-bus
 S818A     Battery master switch
 S925A     Transport protection package
 S926A     Spare wheel

</pre>

When the Sport Wagon had 120,000 miles he came across a 2004 330xi with 116,000 miles that had been in a front-end collision. The damage was mainly cosmetic, but significant enough for the insurance company to total the vehicle. He purchased it from the insurance company and the swap began. When the 330xi M54B30 motor was pulled he replaced:

- Valve Cover Gasket
- Water Pump
- Thermostat
- Radiator
- Radiator Hoses
- Radiator Aux Fan Switch

He installed the motor, DME, EWS Module, Ignition Key Cylinder, Door Lock Cylinders, ZF 6-Speed Gearbox along with the bigger 330xi Front Brakes and Style 73 Wheels. 

The oil has been changed every 5000 miles using 5w-40 Schaffers Synthetic oil. At 130,000 miles the Outer Front CV Axle Boots were replaced. At 135,000 miles the Fuel Pump and Filter were replaced. At 151,000 miles, to prep for sale, he did a major service including: 

* Spark Plugs
* Clutch
- Flywheel
- Throwout Bearing
- Pivot Pin
- Release Fork
- Rear Main Seal
- Driveshaft Center Bearing (CSB)
- Oil Filter Housing Gasket
- Vanos Oil Line
- Intake Manifold Runner
- Lower Air Boot
- Driver’s Side Window Regulator
- Sunroof Shade Clips and Sliders
- Windshield
- Windshield Lower Cowling
- Tires

This sport wagon has all of the right bits. The red exterior over tan leather sport interior stands out against the majority of white, black, and silver E46 wagons. The M54B30 3.0 liter inline six-cylinder 330xi engine produces 230 horsepower and 211 foot/pounds of torque (available at 3500 rpm) delivered in perfect linear fashion. That combined with the 6-Speed manual, larger 330xi brakes (330mm vs 300mm), and 38% front / 62% rear split all-wheel drive makes this a potent wagon that will haul a$$ while hauling your dog too!

This is an extremely clean BMW Sport Wagon. It presents as if it has much fewer miles that 150K, but it is a 13-year old car. As with any BMW, it will require preventative maintenance and occasional repairs, but it has been well sorted and properly cared for. Here is a summary of the good and the bad.

##MECHANICAL
I’ve tried to give a thorough mechanical description of everything that has been done. All of the major E46 issues have been addressed or are not present. The windows regulators all work, the subframe does not show evidence of failure, the cooling system has been overhauled, the VANOS does not have excessive noise, gearbox failure is not an issue because it is a manual. The only thing I could find is that the coolant gauge reads slightly higher than 12 O’Clock, like 12:30. The tech that built the car read the actual temp through the Autologic Computer and it shows it’s in the correct temp range. It read this way before and after the swap.

##EXTERIOR
The paint is in excellent shape. Red is especially prone to UV fade in Colorado, but the lack of any fade indicates this car was clearly shielded from the elements. There is one small spot where the clear coat is peeling about the size of a silver dollar on the hood. The black work, roof rails, and bumper trim are slightly faded, but also above average. The front bumper and splitter are free of pitting, as are the headlights. The wheels have minor curb rash, the worst is about 6 inches long.

##INTERIOR
The interior is very clean for the mileage. There is minimal wear on the seat bolsters. The tan carpets are very clean. We’ve added a 6-speed BMW ZHP shift nob (see last picture). There some superficial scratches on the console covers above the seat heat switches. All buttons and features work correctly.